[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The US military confirms
the first interstellar object
to hit Earth was years before
Oumuamua and corroborates
research done by a
famous astronomer.
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We have reported
before about Oumuamua,
the first interstellar object to
enter our solar system in 2017.
And Harvard Professor Avi Loeb's
book arguing that Oumuamua
might be extraterrestrial.
Whatever it was, its
existence was remarkable
as the first interstellar object
to enter our solar system.
But now, we are
learning Oumuamua
was the second
interstellar object
to enter our solar system.
And this discovery was made
by none other than Avi Loeb.
In 2019, Professor Loeb, working
with his student, Amir Siraj,
combed through the
database of meteors looking
for other interstellar objects.
When they found evidence of
a fast moving meteor that
hit the Earth,
they wrote a paper,
arguing it was interstellar
too, and precedes Oumuamua
by almost four years.
Harvard Professor
Avi Loeb explains.
>> The referees of the
paper that we wrote rejected
the paper, argued that it
should not be published,
because they don't trust
the government and perhaps
the uncertainties, which
are often quantified
in the scientific
literature as error bars,
which they are just the level of
uncertainty in the measurements
are unknown.
>> So, the paper could not
go through peer review or be
published because although
they used a public government
database, the level of
uncertainty or error bars were
kept classified.
The US military does not
reveal that information,
as it could give away the
sensitivity of their equipment.
The paper was stuck in
academic limbo, until now.
The US Space Command
just released
a memo sent to
NASA's Science Chief
confirming Avi Loeb
and Amir Siraj's work.
Sharing in a tweet that
they, quote, "confirm
that a previously-detected
interstellar object was indeed
an interstellar object."
Besides proving Avi Loeb
right, that the meteor in 2014
was interstellar, what is the
significance of this event?
>> First of all, the government
helps progress of science,
which is quite a
watershed moment in a way,
because this was classified
information they're willing
to release part of it.
They are not giving us
the full measurements,
but they are saying
at the 99.999%
that we were right in our
2019 paper with my student.
The second point is, this is
actually the first interstellar
object to have been detected
because it predates Oumuamua
by almost four years.
Finally, Oumuamua was
about 100 meters in size,
and we discovered it
with telescopes because
of the reflection of sunlight.
In the case of a meteor,
you see the fireball
generated as it drops against
the atmosphere and burns up.
And so, you can
see smaller objects
because you are not relying
on reflection of light
from the sun.
>> So, what's next?
Can we find this
object on Earth?
>> Any meteor is
disintegrating into fragments.
And so, we can go off the
coast of Papua New Guinea where
this meteor landed and look for
the fragments from this meteor
and study it.
And that's not a very
expensive expedition.
Much less than the billion
dollar space mission
needed to land on an
object like Oumuamua,
the first interstellar
object reported.
So, it offers a
completely new way
that is not so
expensive at learning
about the composition of the
material that made the object,
about perhaps
whether it's natural
or artificial in origin.
We can put our hands on
whatever is left from it
and bring it to laboratories
at a relatively modest cost.
>> What does this whole
series of events show us about
the future of science
and space exploration?
>> Science is supposed
to be guided by evidence,
not by prejudice, and not by
the number of likes on Twitter.
Altogether, I think it's
a celebration of science
in the sense that
the government is
willing to declassify
some information that
is of national
security importance.
And second, that we
found a new avenue
for exploring the
nature of objects
the size of a meter that came
from outside the solar system.
It's very likely that in terms
of artificial objects produced
by extraterrestrial
technological civilizations,
there are many more small
objects than big objects.
>> Professor Loeb
and Amir Siraj argue,
studying interstellar
meteors could provide proof
of extraterrestrial life.
Saying in their paper,
that meteors could, quote,
"deliver life from
another planetary system."
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.